= Work/Research Experience =

Place: Air Force Research Laboratory
Position: Research Associate
Time: Fall 2018-Present, Fall 2017
Summary: In a collaborative effort to foster new research frontiers in the area of Topology Data Analysis (TDA) between WSU and AFRL, I worked in a research group studying how to combine techniques from  the field of topology and machine learning in both supervised and unsupervised settings. I primarily researched theoretical extensions to the Mapper framework, an often used modality for performing TDA. My work lead to the development of an algorithmic solution which greatly reduces the complexity of the Mapper framework and enables a more tractable analysis of mapper constructions in both the exploratory setting and in the context of Persistent Homology. A journal article demonstrating the utility of this solution is in development, available as a draft. 

Place: National Aeronautics and Space Administration, John H. Glenn Research Center at Lewis Field }
Position: LERCIP Intern
Time: Summer 2018
Summary: I was hired by Dr. Steven Arnold in the Multiscale Modeling Materials and Structures Division for a 10-week internship at NASA to use Machine Learning to explore the possibility automatically capturing process-property-structure (PSP) relationships through the use of a ML-based surrogate model trained on stress-response data simulated via the Generalized Method of Cells.
An additional requirement of the project (per NASAs Vision 2040 guidelines) was to incorporate experimental design methodology for interpreting the results. 

Place: Machine Learning and Complex Systems Lab, Wright State University
Position: Graduate Research Assistant
Time: 2015 - 2018
Summary: I joined the Machine Learning and Complex Systems lab in 2015 initially as part of an independent study, which in turn lead to a graduate research assistantship. I was assigned to a research project aimed at modeling macroscopic aspects of real-world traffic networks via a dynamic network model (i.e. a modified stochastic block model). The topic areas I focused on for the project include Density-based clustering techniques and theory, Dynamic/Temporal Network Models, and Trajectory mining and modeling. 
Prior to using the stochastic block model, the project requiring first converting raw positioning/track information into a dynamic network representation. 
Much of my work involved researching scalable, theory-first approaches to identifying the `nodes' in the network, which corresponded to clusters of movement. My approach involved augmenting the cluster tree, a level-set shape characteristic of an estimated density function, with semi-supervised information. This research was supported by the Center for Surveillance Research, a National Science Foundation I/UCRC.

Place: Google Summer of Code 2017, R Project for Statistical Computing
Position: Student Participant
Time: Summer 2017
Summary: I submitted a successful funding proposal under the Google Summer of Code (GSOC) Initiative to the R Project for Statistical Computing to explore, develop, and unify developments related the theory of density-based clustering, namely the recent developments related to the cluster tree. This involved a variety of code development which culminated in the form of an R package, as well as research to further understand the theory and utility of the cluster tree.

Place: Air Force Institute of Technology, Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education
Position: Student Research Associate
Time: 2014 - 2016
Summary: Towards the end of my undergraduate degree, my contract at AFIT was extended under a new subcontractor, where I continued working with the same research group. During this time I primarily worked on the development of a novel Iterative Closest Point algorithm amenable to massive parallelization, implemented in C++/CUDA, for the purposes of enabling real-time tracking of aircraft in the context of Autonomous Aerial Refueling. The effort lead to multiple publications. I also worked on a hierarchical markov model for predicting web navigation patterns, Parallelizing existing atmospheric absorption routines with OpenCL, and coding a (new) nonlinear optimization algorithm in ANSI-C, and making it callable from MATLAB.

Place: Air Force Institute of Technology, Southwestern Ohio Council for Higher Education}
Position: Undergraduate Research Assistant
Time: 2013 - 2014
Summary: As an undergraduate student, I was hired at the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) to do research in a heavily multi-disciplinary team called the Low Orbitals Radar and Electromagnetism group, where I worked on a diverse set of projects involving computational, statistical, or physics-based requirements. Being my first research-oriented experience, I either assisted graduate students with primarily programmatic or educational tasks or worked on very computationally-oriented tasks. This involved implementing an unsplittable flow approximation algorithm in C++ and Python, creating a conversion tool between Oracle's Abstract Data Type and XMLType, and designing prototypical UI to to enhance searching and viewing of 2-or-3D models using JavaScript.

= Research Achievements (including publications, thesis/dissertation, journal or conference papers) =  

Matt Piekenbrock, Jace Robinson, Lee Burchett, Scott Nykl, Brian Woolley, and Andrew Terzuoli. Automated aerial refueling: Parallelized 3d iterative closest point: Subject area: Guidance and control. In Aerospace and Electronics Conference (NAECON) and Ohio Innovation Summit (OIS), 2016 IEEE National, pages 188-192. IEEE, 2016. 

Jace Robinson, Matt Piekenbrock Lee Burchett, Scott Nykl, Brian Woolley, and Andrew Terzuoli. Parallelized iterative closest p oint for autonomous aerial refueling. In International Symposium on Visual Computing, pages 593-602. Springer International Publishing, 2016. 

(To appear) Michael Hahsler, Matt Piekenbrock, and Derek Doran. dbscan: Fast density-based clustering with R. Journal of Statistical Software, 2019.

Matt Piekenbrock and Derek Doran. Intrinsic Point of Interest discovery from trajectory data. arXiv preprint arXiv:1712.05247, 2017. 

(Thesis) Piekenbrock, Matthew J. Discovering Intrinsic Points of Interest from Spatial Trajectory Data Sources. Diss. Wright State University, 2018.

(In Preparation) Matt Piekenbrock, Derek Doran, and Ryan Kramer. Efficient Multiscale Simplicial Complex Generation with Mapper. Intending on SIAM Journal on Applied Algebra and Geometry, 2019.  

= Honors/Awards =
Outstanding Masters student Award (Computer Science), Wright State University, 2018 Academic Year
Google Summer of Code Participant, Summer 2017
Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education Fellowship, Fall 2017, Fall 2018-Present
Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education Fellowship, 2014-2016
Southwestern Ohio Council for Higher Education Fellowship, 2013-2014

= Minors and/or Specialty Areas =
Masters of Science in Computer Science, Wright State University, 2018
Bachelor of Science in Computer Science, Wright State University, 2015 (+ Minor in Statistics) 

= Related Courses/Skills = 
Network Science, Machine Learning, Information Theory, Applied Stochastic Processes, Applied Statistics I & II, Algorithm Design and Analysis,
Empirical Analysis, Optimization Techniques, Foundations of AI, Computational Tools and Techniques for Data Analysis, Theoretical Statistics, Advanced Programming Languages
